Title: Evaluation of a Default Hepatitis C Screening and Linkage to Care Program Among Hospitalized Adults 

Overview: Embedding hepatitis C virus (HCV) screening during hospitalization can improve diagnosis of HCV; however, linkage to outpatient care is needed to ensure access to curative treatment. We use the HCV Care Cascade framework to evaluate barriers and facilitators to achieve HCV cure among patients diagnosed and linked to care within a default inpatient HCV screening and linkage program. Identifying barriers to successful completion of the steps along the care cascade will inform further programmatic interventions to improve access to curative HCV treatment.

Introduction: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is the most common bloodborne infection in the US, estimated to infect 4.1 million people. HCV remains underdiagnosed with 44% of people remaining unaware of their infection. To improve diagnosis of HCV, the CDC and USPSTF released recommendations for the expansion of HCV screening to all adults 18-79 years in 2020, yet screening has historically been relegated to the primary care setting.  As a result, completion of HCV screening is further complicated as many people with HCV are not regularly engaged in primary care. 

To improve uptake of HCV screening, health systems have aimed to provide low-barrier screening in settings wherever people access medical care. Screening for HCV during hospital admission is one approach to improve uptake of screening; however, linkage to outpatient care is needed for people diagnosed with HCV as inpatient HCV treatment is not standard of care. Programs coupling both HCV screening and linkage to care for hospitalized patients in need of curative treatment may facilitate timely and low-barrier access to curative HCV treatment    

The HCV Care Cascade details the proportion of people who are diagnosed with HCV who ultimately achieve the necessary steps to achieve HCV cure, including linkage to care, care engagement, initiation of treatment, completion of treatment, and confirmation of HCV cure,  Quantifying each step along the care cascade for HCV cure can allow for programmatic evaluation to identify where resources may be necessary by identifying steps where there are declines in completion. In October 2023, Penn Medicine launched a health-system-wide default inpatient HCV screening and linkage program to improve diagnosis of HCV and facilitate timely access to curative treatment.  We present the first 18 months of this program and evaluate completion of each step along the care cascade to identify barriers and facilitators to HCV cure following inpatient diagnosis. 
